Flow remote s3 (#2184)
grafana/agent: docs/flow/reference/components/remote.s3.md

# remote.s3

`remote.s3` exposes the string contents of a file located in [AWS S3](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/)  
to other components. The file will be polled for changes so that the most
recent content is always available.

> The most common use of `remote.s3` is to load secrets from files. 

Author: The component will be unhealthy with an error with `input member Key must not be empty`, let me see if there is a good place to add the note about that.

> Multiple `remote.s3` components can be specified by giving them different name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Multiple `remote.s3` components can be specified using different name
```

> labels. By default, [AWS environment variables](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-envvars.html) are used to authenticate against S3. The `key` and `secret` arguments inside `client_options` block can be used to provide custom authentication. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
labels. By default, [AWS environment variables](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-envvars.html) are used to authenticate against S3. The `key` and `secret` arguments inside `client_options` blocks can be used to provide custom authentication. 
```

> > **NOTE**: Other S3 compatible systems can be read  with `remote.s3` but may require specific 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **NOTE**: Other S3-compatible systems can be read  with `remote.s3` but may require specific 
```

Name | Type | Description                                                             | Default | Required
---- | ---- |-------------------------------------------------------------------------| ------- | --------
`path` | `string` | Path in the format of `"s3://bucket/file"`. | | **yes**
`poll_frequency` | `duration` | How often to poll the file for changes, must be greater than 30 seconds. | `"10m"` | no
`is_secret` | `bool` | Marks the file as containing a [secret][]. | `false` | no

[secret]: {{< relref "../../config-language/expressions/types_and_values.md#secrets" >}}

## Blocks

Name | Description | Required
---- | ----------- | --------
[`client_options`](#client_options-block) | Additional options for configuring the S3 client. | no

### client_options block

> The `client_options` block allows the overriding of default client values. 

Reviewer 2: WDYT about something more specific?

```suggestion
The `client_options` block customizes options to connect to the S3 server.
```

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`key` | `string` | Used to override default access key. | | no
`secret` | `secret` | Used to override default secret value. | | no
`endpoint` | `string` | Endpoint specifies a custom url to access, used generally for S3 compatible systems. | | no
`disable_ssl` | `bool` | Used to disable SSL, generally used for testing. | | no
`use_path_style` | `string` | Path style is a deprecated setting that is generally enabled for S3 compatible systems. | `false` | no
`region` | `string` | Used to override default region. | | no

## Exported fields

The following fields are exported and can be referenced by other components:

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`content` | `string` or `secret` | The contents of the file. | | no

The `content` field will be secret if `is_secret` was set to true.

## Component health

> Instances of `remote.s3` will report as healthy if the most recent read of
> the watched file was successful.

Reviewer 2: Change to present tense:

```suggestion
Instances of `remote.s3` report as healthy if the most recent read of
the watched file was successful.
```

Name | Type | Description                                                             | Default | Required
---- | ---- |-------------------------------------------------------------------------| ------- | --------
`path` | `string` | Path in the format of `"s3://bucket/file"`. | | **yes**

> `poll_frequency` | `duration` | How often to poll the file for changes, must be greater than 30 seconds. | `"10m"` | no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`poll_frequency` | `duration` | How often to poll the file for changes. Must be greater than 30 seconds. | `"10m"` | no
```

`is_secret` | `bool` | Marks the file as containing a [secret][]. | `false` | no

> > **NOTE**: `path` must include a full path to a file, this does not support reading of directories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **NOTE**: `path` must include a full path to a file. This does not support reading of directories.
```

[secret]: {{< relref "../../config-language/expressions/types_and_values.md#secrets" >}}

## Blocks

Name | Description | Required
---- | ----------- | --------
[`client_options`](#client_options-block) | Additional options for configuring the S3 client. | no

### client_options block

The `client_options` block customizes options to connect to the S3 server.

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`key` | `string` | Used to override default access key. | | no
`secret` | `secret` | Used to override default secret value. | | no

> `endpoint` | `string` | Endpoint specifies a custom url to access, used generally for S3 compatible systems. | | no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`endpoint` | `string` | Specifies a custom url to access, used generally for S3-compatible systems. | | no
```

`remote.s3` does not expose any component-specific debug metrics.

## Other S3 compatible systems

> Other S3 compatible systems can be read with `remote.s3` but may require specific authentication environment variables. There is no guarantee that `remote.s3` will work with non-AWS S3 systems. 

Reviewer 2: I think this should be closer to the top since it might be something people want to know immediately.

WDYT about putting it in a blockquote after the description of the component?

```markdown
# remote.s3

`remote.s3` exposes the string contents of a 
file located in [AWS S3](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/)  
to other components. The file will be polled for 
changes so that the most recent content is always 
available.

> **NOTE**: Other S3 compatible systems can be read 
> with `remote.s3` but may require specific 
> authentication environment variables. There is no 
> guarantee that `remote.s3` will work with non-AWS S3 
> systems. 
```

Author: Sounds reasonable.
